---
layout: post
title: "Season 1, Chapter 1"
date: 2020-12-3
---

Alexander clutched the centrifuge as he prepared to step out of the airlock.  Life on the half-terraformed Io was hard.  The air was breathable, but smelled like so many rotten eggs, due to the sulfur pouring out of Io’s pores.  And the mixture of gases weren’t exactly healthy, it was best to breathe through a purifier.
    Unfortunately, it was going to stay this way for a long time, maybe forever.  The unknown catastrophe that wiped out the proliferating human species many eons ago had taken their advanced technology with them, the remaining survivors did not know how to operate or create the huge terraforming facilities.  Alexander barely understood what he was holding, the centrifuge.
    It was one of his routine trips to the surface of Io, test the atmosphere and chemicals.  Alexander did not know what were the intents of the leaders were, but he was under orders.  
    His helmet and suit were already on.  Another one of his crewmates on the old human settlement pressed a combination code on the keypad before the airlock, and the first door hissed open.  They stepped into the space between the first door and the second.  
    After thirty seconds, the second door opened, exposing them to the barren landscape of Io.  A few withered, yellow weeds grew on a soft rock next to the airlock.  Several dozens of meters ahead, there was a series of gloopy, bubbling mud volcanoes.  Those were treacherous, putting your foot in one would make you slowly sink into the mud, scald the suit and skin of your legs, and the brunt of the toxic chemicals excreted by the volcanoes would be too much for even the purifiers, killing you.
    Sadly for Alexander, that was the exact place he was going.  With a small vial in his hand.  
    He walked around the jagged, sulfurous rocks and made his way to the mud volcanoes.  With his clamps, he scooped up a vial full bubbling, hot mud.  Walking away from the volcanoes, he put the mud vial into the centrifuge and pressed a few buttons.  The centrifuge started to spin rapidly with a whirring noise, then slowly ground to a halt.  He took out the vial with the separated mud, and walked to the airlock.  The other members of his team were finishing up their observations, picking up their machinery and making their way back.
    The airlock door opened and they went back inside.

   Alexander dug into his dinner of heavily genetically modified potatoes with extra starch.  It was a necessity, for living on Io was hard, and they had to get as much energy they needed.  Potatoes were optimal for long-term calories, so when the unknown catastrophe struck, the ancient humans still had a large reserve of GMO potatoes, ready for planting.  So far, the small hab-colony had survived on almost entirely potatoes, sometimes with a lucky piece of bread if the wheat crops were well.  A once-in-a-decade delicacy was meat, the scientists managed to literally find out how to grow meat using some old technology, but every time it made meat, it was too much, and the stuff broke.  It was years until they could fix up a working one again.
    The mess hall was deep under the surface of Io, and it was maybe the largest room in the bunch.  It had a low roof, but was packed with tables.  There was a large Plexiglass separator to the main farms, which grew the potatoes.  
    Even though the processed potato was bland, Alexander still ate it with ravenous hunger.  He was just hungry, he had to skip lunch to do the experiments outside.  After dinner, he was to go on mining duty, digging out large tunnels underground to expand the hab-colony.  It usually took years to create a fully-functioning hab the size of one or two ancient human houses.  But it worked, so they kept going.  
    
   Alexander walked into the optimized digger and the dig site, putting a helmet on.  It would take multiple people to operate the digger, it was big and unwieldy with its drill.  Alexander was doing the most dangerous part, actually drilling with the drill.  
    One of his crewmates got into the seat behind him, Oliver.  They were part-friends, but you couldn’t really do anything in the hab-colony.  The ebooks were okay, but there were no writers in the colony, so you had to read the same books over and over again.  All you could do was work.  
    “Preparations: Battery-check.  Maintenance-check.  Drill-check.  We’re ready to go,” Oliver said through his mouthpiece.  Alexander pulled the lever, and the drill started turning, grinding into the sulfur-infused rock.  The caterpillar tracks pulled the digger forward.  
    As they dug through the sulfur-infused rock, a bright shower of orange sparks started flying from the drill head, almost as if someone had lit a fire.  The digger went from moving slowly to almost not moving at all.  
    Alexander quickly deactivated the drill, the whirring subsiding.
    “That’s no rock,” he muttered to himself.  With his suit on, he stepped out of the digger out into the tunnel of yellowish rock.  He walked towards the large, imposing drill, then looked at the wall of rock that was impenetrable to the digger.
    At first, it just looked like any large piece of rock on Io: soft, yellow, and crumbly, rather like limestone.  But it wasn’t.  Peeking from behind the rock, there were a few patches of stark gray metal, cold and foreboding.  The place where the digger had trouble was barely scratched by the huge drill.  
    Alexander spoke into his microphone attached to his suit.  “We’ve found a foreign metal object.  It appears to be big, possibly bigger than one of our habs.  Over.”
    “Ok.  Getting reinforcements.  How hard do you estimate the metal object to be?  Over.”
    The drill was supposed to penetrate materials that have around a 5 on Mohs scale.  The metal wall seemed to be significantly harder than that, so…
    “Around a 7 on Mohs scale, sir.  Over.”
    The correspondent said, “A seven?  We’re sending in the big ones.  Over.”
    Several minutes later, a few people holding large portable plasma cutters walked over, in rubber suits, much more protected than Alexander.  
    “You should get outta here soon.”
    Alexander and the rest of the drill team walked out of the long tunnel, just as the incandescent light of the plasma cutters started.  Sparks rained from the curved metal wall, until finally, a large circular portion of the wall fell away.  
    The people with the cutters insisted that they would wait until the molten metal colled, then enter, because the red-hot metal could burn through their suits like paper.  Whatever it was, it would have to wait. It was time to sleep, and the leaders of the colony had every single person on a strict curfew, even the very young.  
    Alexander loped back to his chambers, and stepped inside his glass pod.  It was a piece of ancient technology found in the ruins of an ancient human base many miles away.  It was conceptually an advanced bed, using anti-gravity to create the illusion that you were asleep.  It would also pump a slight amount of sedative gas to assure you calm sleep.
As the gas rushed in, enveloping Alexander in darkness, he wondered what he had found.

The long, sharp needle rushed through space.  It was on a mission: a short, simple one for its kind, but still a mission nonetheless.  It dashed quickly past the Proxima Centauri system, then within a heartbeat leapt to the Sol system, by uses of technology even its makers had long forgotten.  
    It was suspended in empty space for a moment, then made its way to the almost-star, what the humans called Jupiter.  Then, it pinpointed a small, sulfurous orb, the yellow Io, dotted with chemical volcanoes.  The needle flew en route to the surface, then stopped abruptly, its point quivering like a rat’s whiskers.  
    A nanosecond after that, the needle spun five successive circles, collecting and categorizing almost everything about the moon Io, including the precise position of every atom on the planet.  Of course, it did not overlook the ancient human underground base where it had long ago seeded several surprises for whoever found it.
    It rose up, and darted into the stars.

   When Alexander was eating his breakfast of potato starch, he heard whisperings of several discoveries of ancient human tech.  He assumed that it was the metal wall he drilled into, but wasn’t expecting all the rumors about working technology and still-functional computers.  Anything that had been stuck down there for so long would have corroded long ago.  
    Suddenly, his handheld communicator crackled, and in the unmistakable voice of the base leader, said, “Report to Room 5G immediately.  We want you to investigate the strange object you found yesterday.”
    Alexander was puzzled.  There were much more experienced people than him in the base.  But it was the leader’s orders: he must follow.
    Room 5B was the equipment room, where most of the suits were stored.  A correspondent by the name of Michael was there, and told him to wear the heavy rubber suits like the plasma cutter-wielding men had.  Alexander had never even touched one of these suits before, it was extremely hot and sweaty inside, he could barely move his arms.
    Alexander walked into the rocky tunnel, small pebbles cracking under his feet.  He finally reached the hole in the wall, where a person was waiting for him.  Through her mic, she said, “You’ll need this.”
    She handed her a large and bulky taser gun.  Alexander became even more confused, since there were only twelve of these in the entire facility.  Plus, he was the only person to enter.  To investigate a source of tech, people would always go in squads.  He felt a sense of foreboding before him.
    He stepped through the hole and found himself amazed.  There was functioning, black, sleek computers everywhere, to his side there seemed to be something that looked like a weapons rack, but there was nothing on it.  At the end, he saw sealed tunnels extending to other places.
    But the main attraction was in the center of the surprisingly empty room.  It seemed more of a large airplane hangar than anything.  
    There was a sleek black spacecraft in the middle of the hangar.  It looked rather like a large rectangle with two pairs of medium-length wings sticking out of it, like a wider airplane with two sets of wings.  The doors were opened.  
    Alexander walked towards the spacecraft and jumped into the fuselage.  An eerie feeling passed over Alexander, like somebody was watching him… inspecting him.  
    His comm crackled with the voice of the leader of the base.  “Go over there.  The big door.”
    He obediently stepped towards the door.  It slid open with a hiss, revealing… another door.  Must be an airlock system, Alexander thought.  When he stepped into the area between the two doors, the first one slammed shut, and some undetected speakers made a tone.  The second door opened, and Alexander stepped into the room.
    The first thing he noticed was that the room was heavily temperature-controlled.  It was so cold that the chill cut right into his bones, even though he was wearing the rubber suit.  Several pods lined the edges, filled with white mist.  He couldn’t clearly make out what was in there, the mist obscured his vision, shifting around in the pods.  
    But as the cold brought him to his knees, he knew that there was another, more sinister presence in the air.  Something that was made exactly for him.  Something that the leader of the base knew about.
    While the darkness flew up his body, he saw shadows unfold from the pod, white mist billowing, and… and a foot-long needle, spinning in the air.
    All went black.
